java cUniversity of Nottingham Ningbo China
Architectural Engineering Design 1
Computing Part
Python Milestone 2: A Text-based Interface for Energy Modeling
In this part of coursework, you will be asked to develop a few more python functions and a 
text-based user interface that are able to perform simple building energy simulations based on 
EnergyPlus. 
Learning outcomes
- Test and practice the knowledge of iterations and data structures in Python
- Test and practice the knowledge of I/O and modification of text-based files
- Test and practice the knowledge of simple data analysis on building performance 
Submission
Due: 21 Nov 2024, 16:00 PM
Submission format: submit a python script file(s) (.py file) and a word file on Moodle 
Text-based Interface of Energy Modeling
Building energy modeling is an important tool to help engineers predict and analyze building 
energy consumption under various design and operation conditions. You can get the energy 
demand of a building even before you actually build it, and you can get to know the effects of 
some key thermal parameters on the final energy performance of your design. 
While most building energy modeling software has a nice graphical user interface (GUI), it is 
beyond your ability at this stage of the module. Therefore, this project will just ask you to 
develop a simple text-based user interface to perform energy modeling based on a popular 
engine named EnergyPlus. 
Requirements
1. In this coursework, you are given a model file (1ZoneIdealSys.idf) and a given weather file
shanghai_2017.epw. You need create a software with text-based interface by using Python 
argparse feature to realize the following features:
◼ When user gives a starting U-value, an ending U-value (inclusive), a step interval
(e.g., 0.2, 3.0, 0.2 respectively), your soft代 写data、Python
代做程序编程语言ware should be able to output a single bar 
chart file (a .PNG image file) to visualize annual total heating energy consumption 
and annual total cooling energy consumption at different U-values (i.e., 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 
0.8, …, 3.0). In this bar chart, the x-axis is U-value, and the y-axis is annual total 
heating/cooling energy consumption. You should use different colors to represent 
heating and cooling energy consumption bars. 
2. Write a short paragraph (less than 300 words, in MS Word), comment on the effects of wall 
U-value on the heating and cooling energy consumption. You should use the bar chart 
generated by your software above. Explain the effects based on heat transfer principles (e.g., 
your PCM contents). 
Marking Rubrics
# Requirements Marks
1 Interface: correct implementation of the text based interface using Python argparse feature. 
The text-based interface should have meaningful 
argument names and argument explanations. 
10
2 Runnable: your software must be runnable 
without error. You software must be able to 
10
handle the wrong arguments given by users, e.g., 
starting U-value is smaller than the ending U value. 
3 Correctness: your code has correct 
implementation of the requirements, and can 
generate the output image with correct results. 
40
Chart presentation: The output bar chart should 
have correct axis labels, legends, and correct 
color coding
10
Styles: Right programming styles (discussed in 
our session 2)
10
Analysis: Clear and correct analysis on the effects
of U value on heating and cooling energy 
consumption, with strong reference to the charts 
that have been plotted; correct English usage 
without grammar errors; correct explanation 
based on heat transfer principles. 
20

         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
